# Constructors_and_Destructors_in_C_Plus_Plus
# Software Required:
Visual Studio
# Theory:
In C++, constructors are special methods that are automatically called whenever an object of a class is created. The constructor in C++ has the same name as the class or structure.

<ins>Types of Constructors in C++</ins>:

Constructors can be classified based on the situations they are being used in. There are 4 types of constructors in C++:

1. Default Constructor
2. Parameterized Constructor
3. Copy Constructor

1. <ins>Default Constructor</ins>:
A default constructor is automatically generated by the compiler if the programmer does not define one. This constructor doesn't take any argument as it is parameter less and initializes object members using default values. It is also called a zero-argument constructor. 

2. <ins> Parameterized Constructor</ins>:
Parameterized constructor allow us to pass arguments to constructors. Typically, these arguments help initialize an object's members. To create a parameterized constructor, simply add parameters to it the way you would to any other function.

4. <ins> Copy Constructor</ins>:
A copy constructor is a member function that initializes an object using another object of the same class. Copy constructor takes a reference to an object of the same class as an argument.

Characteristics of Constructors:

+ The name of the constructor is the same as its class name.
+ Constructors are mostly declared as public member of the class though they can be declared as private.
+ Constructors do not return values, hence they do not have a return type.
+ In case of multiple constructors, the one with matching function signature will be called.

<ins>Destructors</ins>:
A destructor is a special member function of a class that is executed whenever an object of it's class goes out of scope or whenever the delete expression is applied to a pointer to the object of that class. A destructor will have exact same name as the class prefixed with a tilde (~) and it can neither return a value nor can it take any parameters. 

# Implementation:
The concepts of Constructor and Destructor are demonstrated by the following codes,
+ Constructor of Student info
+ Vehicle info using Constructor(outside the class)
+ volume using parrameterized constructor
+ copy constructor
+ Destructor using counters

  # Algorithms:
    Destructors:
  
     Step 1: Start
  
     Step 2: Create a class named Destruct

     + Declare a static integer variable count to keep track of the number of objects.

     + This variable is shared by all objects of the class.

     Step 3: Define a Constructor

     + When an object is created:

     + Increase the value of count by 1

     + Print a message:
       
    + "Object created. Total objects: <count>"

    Step 4: Define a Destructor

    + When an object is destroyed:

    + Decrease the value of count by 1

    + Print a message:
      
    + "Object destroyed. Remaining objects: <count>"

    Step 5: In the main() function

    + Create four objects: a1, b1, c1, s1

    + Each time an object is created, the constructor runs and count increases.

    Step 6: End of main() function

    + When the program ends, all local objects go out of scope.

    + The destructor is automatically called for each object in reverse order of creation.
 
    Volume info:
  
     Step 1: Start
  
     Step 2: Create a class called volume

     + Inside the class:

     + Declare 3 integer variables for dimensions (x, y, z)

     + Declare a double variable vol to store the volume

     Step 3: Define a Constructor

     + Constructor takes 3 arguments: l, b, and h (length, breadth, height)

     + Calculate volume using formula:
       
     + vol = l × b × h

    + Store the result in the vol variable

   Step 4: Define a display() function

   + This function prints the calculated volume

   Step 5: In the main() function

    + Declare 3 integer variables: a, b, c

    + Ask the user to enter values for length, breadth, and height

    + Read the values using cin

  Step 6: Create an object of the class

    + Create object v1 using values a, b, and c

    + This automatically calls the constructor and calculates the volume

   Step 7: Call the display() function

    + Display the calculated volume on the screen

   Step 8: End the program

  # Conclusion:
The above codes demonstrates the use of constructors and destructors in C++.

   
